>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So let me show
you how this looks in the code.
So we'll just walk through.
I'll give you kind of a tour
of what this looks like and
then we'll break for lunch and
get into our challenge.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So using the items
component as our reference point.
Because this actually has
everything that I've talked about.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's look at
first and foremost, the template.
So there's very little
layout happening here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The only layout that
is happening, really, is to put child
components on the stage and
kind of just arrange them appropriately.
So you have the container and
obviously I'm using the flexbox to
kind of split them into two columns.
Now if we look at this, we have an items
list that has an input of items.
And we know that this item can omit
two events selected and deleted.
Well that makes sense,
you can select the event or
select an item but you can also delete it.
So now, when we select an item,
what do you think happens?
Is it set to two, current item.
And so now,
this is how that problem is solved.
It's on the list.
It's saying this was just selected.
The list doesn't care.
It just says hey, parent.
Like this just what happened.
Then, it sets current item and
because it's now bound to the item detail.
It's automatically going to update.
And so, we know also that you can save or
cancel.
So we know on the detail component,
you can save it, whatever's in there,
or we can cancel it, we don't wanna do it.
We don't need to do anything.
So let's look at-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The item
list component.
So right here.
No moving parts.
It takes an input of an items array.
I do have a property of read only.
The reason being is if it's on the
homepage I just want to read I don't want
the ability for someone actually
delete it from the homepage.
And so,
you can see here within the template
this is, pretty much the rules
of basic binding work.
I'm just saying if it's not read
only go ahead and show this button.
If not, go ahead and hide it.
So if reads only hide it,
if it's not show it.
But we're letting the parent
define the context.
And so if we go back to the items of this
component, we're defaulting it to false,
cause by default we wanna show it.
But you can override that and say well no,
we actually don't wanna show it,
we want it to be read
only in this context.
So if we go to Home Component what
do you think we're going to see?
Well, before I get there,
let's keep sharp here.
We have an input of items.
And read only.
It also has an output of selected and
deleted, so you can select an item or
you can delete an item
from the collection.
Now if we jump over to the home component,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What
do we have going on here?
Outside of list, and
we're only using the two inputs.
We're saying, take these items,
go ahead and render them.
And we're setting this to read only.
So in this context,
we're letting the parent say,
we want to display the item list but
we want it to be read only.
And then from here,
it says great, I have items, and
from here then in the template it just
treats it any other property or method.
Now the difference is with outputs,
instead of calling the method,
you do the output.emit.
so you actually have to emit the event.
So there's kinda that one thing
you're dealing with event emitter.
So when selected, or this button gets
clicked it's called selected.omit or
deleted.omit or
passing up the item that we are deleting.
But when I look at this, right here,
I think this is absolutely incredible.
We have a fully functional,
non-trivial, component on the page.
It is actually not doing anything other
than rendering whatever you pass into it,
and taking whatever user reaction
happens to it, and kicking it back out.
This is a very, very stable component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now for reference,
let's also look at item detail.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So in item detail,
we've obviously seen this a bit from using
it as a reference point for
the widget component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The difference is,
if we go into here, we have two outputs.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Saved and cancelled.
And we have one input of item.
So before I get into what's
actually happening here,
let's go back to our mark up.
So it has one input of item.
And it has a saved and a cancelled output.
Now the question is, why pray tell,
am I doing this right here?
The reason being is, well,
there's a famous quote.
Not a famous quote, but
there's this guy Venkat Subramaniam who
has written a couple books on Groovy and
he's just a pretty famous Groovy/Java
programmer, really dynamic personality.
And, it went over my head at the time,
but.
He was giving a talk in Phoenix.
And he said,
shared state is not a bad thing.
Mutable state is not a bad thing.
Share mutable state is the devil.
In other words, when you have state
that is shared between multiple
components in any component
can mutate that state.
You have now put every other component
that depends on that state at risk.
And I'll talk a little bit more
about that probably tomorrow.
The point is, shared mutable
state is a really good way for
things to go horribly
wrong in your application.
So what do you do about forms?
Obviously, at some point,
somebody has to change state.
You have to accept user input.
And so this is something I really
struggled with for a long time.
And the simple answer is that you
allow for the mutation to happen.
By isolating the mutation.
So you basically make it no longer shared.
You simply say here's
the state you're taking.
It's potentially shared, lets go ahead and
create a perimeter around it and
isolate the state mutation until we're
ready to save it, back up and persist it.
So what I'm doing here is I've created an
input but using ES 6 I've done a setter.
So instead of doing it straight like
this equals this every time I set item
this method gets called.
And from here I'm creating a local
copy called by using Object.assign,
so this is a handy way to
create a copy of an object.
So anytime we send an item,
I am saying great.
I have an item.
Go ahead and create a copy of it and
send it as selecteditem.
Now, what I'm also doing here is I'm
creating a reference to the originalName.
The reason being is,
you'll see here when I select this.
If I was not binding to a reference
to the original name here,
the minute I started typing over
this would start updating as well.
So this is what I mean
by shared mutable state.
Let me ask you to just undo this.
Look so I know kind of that you say
shared mutable state and it's like!
At least for me,
the first time it went way over my head.
So here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So instead of binding
to the stored reference, we'll go here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: This is what I
mean by having shared mutable state.
You change it here, in this field,
and it's messing it up over here.
And so it's a really benign example, but
what if this was happening
somewhere else in your application?
And it was mutating C and
you couldn't even see,
like the fact is you can see this,
it makes it a little easier to deal with,
what happens is this changes something and
you don't even know about it.
Yey.
Pass by reference.
That's the nature of JavaScript, and
really, most programming languages.
And so that's why, for a UX experience,
for just the user experience I
store that off, but I also do it, so
again I'm isolating that mutation.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
we'll set this back to its original name.
So now when I select this, I can type it.
And it's working on,
essentially the copy that I created.
So when I'm ready to save it.
Then what I do is I simply say take
this item that I've just changed,
save it up, and pass it back.
And so then we take that basically
the cloned item, save it to the server,
and we're good to go.
But, I'll save it again,
let's just put it back where it was.
Let's say you just do something and
you know like, eh,
I didn't mean to do that, cancel.
Well what does it do?
It just throws away the clone,
it doesn't need it because you
haven't effected the original object.
And so this is why the mutable
operations are so important.
For instance, as if you had
an object with ten properties on it.
And you started to change one property,
then another, and then another.
And then, you're, like,
I actually need to undo this.
I need to reset this object.
I need to back it out.
Well, how do you do that?
We've already mutated the object.
And what happens if you do property one,
two, and five,
and you need to mutate property two?
Well now you gotta figure out
how to actually step over with
what you did on five,
and go straight to two.
It's a really hairy thing.
Instead, as if you create a copy,
I need to back this out,
you just roll it back
to the original copy.
And so that is why in the item detail
component I'm essentially creating a copy
and I'm binding to it in the template.
And so the form is bound to not item,
but it is bound to selected item.
Therefore my mutation is
isolated to that component.
And it can't escape until I save
it out and emit that event.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Inputs, outputs.